## John Thompson's Individual Capstone Assessment

For this project, I am working with Mary Meineke, Sarah Murdock, and Preston Savey on creating the HomeCookHub, a recipe-sharing app where users can search, upload, and share recipes. They can also create meal plans and generate grocery lists. We are planning to add many features into the application, it will be a web app and a mobile app. There are going to be features such as searching to recipes that include or do not include certain ingredients, it can account for users looking for recipes without any dietary restrictions and add ingredients you don’t have to your grocery list. It will also use machine learning to give you recommendations on what recipes to make, and it can make replacements for an ingredient if you do not have it or if there is a dietary restriction. This will be a very cool app that will make cooking in the kitchen more convenient to users.

I have had a lot of experience that will help me through the development of this project. For my first co-op term, I was not able to find a place to intern so I did the EEP. There I learned skills in many areas of software development and one of those areas was web development. I had learned the basics of different libraries and frameworks to make web applications such as React and Node.js. This project requires expertise in a lot of different areas, this includes Web and Mobile App Development, Database management, Machine Learning, Cloud Computing and API Integrations. I have experience in a lot of these areas, not only did I do Web App Development during my EEP, I also did Cloud Computing Virtual Apprenticeship which I learned the basics of cloud computing and I can use that here for the HomeCookHub.

During my other co-ops I gained a lot of experience in software engineering and team based experience. I worked with a team to develop a product that the customers use. On my last co-op, I was a software engineer intern at GE Aerospace, they were working on a new system that is needed for engine tests and I was there to help with develop a prototype for the system. I saw the different steps of a software engineer process such as Development, Testing and Deployment and Feedback loop. That would help out a lot for development here because we are planning on implementing weekly standups and using task management software. I also learned a lot of teamwork skills, I learned how to effectively work on a team and ask questions whenever was needed to make sure I was not stuck on anything. My classes also gave me a lot of experience, in my software engineering class. I learned the basics of an intuitive web app, I was on a team where we created an application to lookup capture the flag events for cybersecurity users. We used an API of a database of capture the flag events and used it to output a list that users can select the link of and sign up for it. This API Integrations experience is going to be very useful. Also, I took a database class where we learned about databases and how to properly manage and organize them, this will be very useful for this app as there will be database management for the vast amount of recipe data and reviews. So, there is a lot of experience that I learned throughout my classes and my co-ops that I can apply for this project.

I am excited for this project. This app is very interesting, and it looks like it going to be a fun challenge to develop. HomeCookHub is something I was looking forward to as a senior design project because this is a solution to a similar problem I was trying to solve. I had an idea for a cocktail sharing app where users can look up cocktails that include certain ingredients that you have in a bar. Food is something great as well as I am wanting to look for more recipes to use to spice up my kitchen, so I want to be able to get this project completed. Me and the team got together and talked about the scope of the project and some examples of some features we would like to add to HomeCookHub. Customers are tired of having different apps used for different purposes, like one focuses a lot on recipes while other focus on meal planning, they also lack features such as grocery list generation and community interaction. This app will solve that problem and put it into a single app.

The results that I expect out of this project is a web and mobile app where users can lookup recipes based on the name of the recipe or the type of food, it can also search based on ingredients that they have in the kitchen. It will use machine learning to get the best results for the user and list them for the user to click on and find instructions on how to make the recipe. Additionally I expect that they can also plan meals. That is what I would expect out of this project but if there are other features that we are able to finish such as the diet tracking and grocery list generation, I would be very happy and I would think we would be done with the project at that point. I think if we can get an app where users can look up recipes and plan their meals throughout the week regarding their dietary restrictions, I felt like we did a very good job on the application. I would evaluate regarding how good the recipes are recommended to me, the UI/UX is very clean and fast, if I have any problem navigating the site, and if it has the features defined in the project description.
