Mary Meineke

## Individual Capstone Assessment

Throughout my time at the University of Cincinnati, I have explored many different corners of the field of computer science, both through my experiences in class and on co-op. As I have now reached my senior project, I—along with my group—plan on synthesizing the information we have learned through all our myriad experiences to create a recipe website/app which would allow users to explore and share recipes. I personally view this as a way for me to merge the two tracks of my education so far: my classwork, which have given me more academic and theoretical knowledge, and my co-op experience, which has given me the chance to apply what I've learned in the real word. Through both, I have learned different skills and have been able to determine where my interests lie. Through this final, I will gain a deeper understanding of the topics I end up exploring, and produce something that will be an aid when looking for work following graduation.

Our group's final project is focusing on full stack development which requires knowledge of both the front end and the back end: both user interface and design, and the back-end skeleton. Classes that I can draw on include: EECE 3093C Software Engineering and CS4092 Database Design, as well as CS5167 User interfaces I, CS5152 Intelligent Data Analysis, and CS5154 Information Retrieval which I am taking this semester. We will be using developmental models I learned about in the Software Engineering class; I can draw on what I learned in that class as we continue to plan and work our way through development. My database design course will help with the backend work I will be doing and the UI course will help with any front end contributions I may make. The classes I am taking on information retrieval and processing this semster will be less useful at the begining of the project, but will likely be useful as we scale up and continue with project.

The other thread of my education that I can integrate in this project is my co-op experience. The majority of my co-ops have been on the development side as that is where my interests lie, though I did do one co-op rotation in more of a technical support role. My first co-op experience especially gave me relevant experience for this project, as I worked to develop a web application that allowed users to handle data stored in the company's SQL databases. That gave me experience with both designing and implementing the front-end user interface and implementing the back-end interactions with the data. My other three development rotations involved more working with embedded systems rather than applications, but it still required me to create user interface using CSS and python. Additionally, those co-op experiences gave me skills at working as part of a team and using the scrum development framework, which is also an essential part of ensuring a project's success. Finally, I also developed my technical communication skills which will help to make this project well-documented and thus easier for us to share and build upon.

I am interested in this project because it gives me the opportunity to demonstrate a variety of skills that go into the development progress. The act of creation from the ground up is an exciting challenge as I will need to work in multiple areas and use a variety of skills. It has a concrete end goal which is something that I can easily visualize and keep in mind, something that also helps to motivate me through the process. I'm going to start on this project by reviewing and familiarizing myself with the different technologies that we will use when developing our application. I will work alongside my teammates to brainstorm and come up with initial features and deliverables and prioritize what we want to complete. From there, we'll work to divide work amongst ourselves and figure out a timeline.

At the end of this project, I expect that we will have have a web application that allows users to upload and search for recipes. Alternatively, if our group ends up switching gears, more generally, I expect that we will have a web application that looks and functions smoothly and that demonstrates the skills I have learned. I suspect that actually determining when it is done will be tricky. There is always the urge to tinker more, to constantly improve. I will be satisfied if all the basic functionalities work, but the smoother and more efficiently that the application works, the more satisfied with my work I will be. I hope that in the end, the quality of my work will match the amount of effort that I put in and be able to be clearly seen.
