# Final Self Assessment

For this project, I primarily worked on the back-end, specifically in setting up and managing the databases. I also created a custom API that allowed the HomeCookHub website to communicate with the database. We used Firebase to store our data, which is a NoSQL database. All of my previous experience had been with SQL databases, so I needed to learn how NoSQL databases worked and decide the best ways to organize and call our data. While designing the databases, I also created documentation outlining the different API calls and the layout of the database. As the project developed further, I made updates to the database and structure to support the evolving design of the website. Finally, I populated the database with test data and updated that data as was needed by my teammates.

Throughout this project, I became much more familiar with Firebase and NoSQL databases. I also gained competency in javascript, typescript, and fetch protocols through my work on the API. I also helped some to get the api calls implemented in the front end and did some work in react, though that was a minor part overall. My main challenge came in the form of learning how to implement the API. Figuring out how to start it was especially challenging. Once I got going though, things became smoother and I was able to apply what I’d learned in designing previous calls when I implemented new ones. I was ultimately able to get to the point where I could quickly make changes to support the development work my teammates were doing.

Together, our group was able to pull together a good-looking website with all of our core planned functionality. While we would have liked to have been able to implement more comprehensive search features and more social features, we were none the less satisfied with what we accomplished. We were  able to grow in our team work over the course of the project. In the beginning, we had trouble figuring out where to start, how to break down such a large project into smaller steps, and how to coordinate our work. As we continued with the project, we grew more comfortable with what we were doing and were able to more smoothly continue with the development process. One thing that we should have done better at the start was develop naming and coding standards. Later in the project, minor differences in variable names caused some issues, and that was something we could have communicated more clearly.

We all contributed roughly similar amounts of work to the project. Sarah and Preston put in slightly more work to get the front end working than I did to get the back-end running. Especially in the days leading up the expo, they did a great job in pulling everything together. They also created a really professional and good-looking user interface design for the project. John also did a good job implementing the functionality that allowed a user to upload a recipe. We all did work on this project that we can be proud of.
