Preston Savey

# Individual Capstone Assessment

For this project I was tasked with being one of the two front end developers. I assisted with creating some of the major functionality of our app like the meal planning and grocery list pages. The meal planning page was a difficult one for me as I had to experiment with different layouts to make it look clean. The functionality was easier for me as my background experience applies better to this. The grocery list page had a lot of data and array manipulation to achieve a clean and functioning user experience. I spent a lot of time searching for correct recipes, compiling and merging ingredient lists, ensuring creation and deletion updated dynamically, and testing to make sure each of the three tabs in this page worked together seamlessly. This took up most of my time and was my largest contribution. I also worked on implementing the API calls for these pages. 

The one major change that I had in my role for this project was the switch from being primarily in charge of mobile development to just a general front end web developer. We decided that although it would make sense to have a mobile implementation, it was causing a lot of extra work and taking away from the overall progress of our app. We decided that for this project it would make the most sense to put all hands on the web app. Throughout this process I developed my react skills by a great amount. I was previously only proficient in Angular. While this was a major help in picking up React quickly, I had some trouble transitioning as I would make assumptions that were unique to Angular. My greatest success was creating errorless functionality and a clean design for the grocery list page. My greatest struggle was creating clean UI designs. I think I achieved this for the grocery list, but the meal planning page was a challenge for me.
