# Preston Savey Individual Assessment

	The capstone project that we chose is a recipe sharing app. It can be considered a social media, but it is a place where people can get new recipe ideas and share ideas that they have enjoyed. We have even thought of other features like a cocktail recipe section to better expand the capabilities/utilities of our app. The idea itself is not what makes me excited for this project, but it is more about the skills I will be learning by taking a project like this one on. We will be creating a full stack application using the react framework. We will also be offering the app on mobile and web devices. This will extend the user base we will be able to offer our app for.

	I have had numerous college classes that will help me throughout this process. In my software engineering class (EECE - 3093 C) I got experience building an application from the ground up. This application used angular which is a similar framework and also included mobile platforms. We went through all the documentation and different sprint planning methods that we will use in the industry. I am also taking User Interface (CS - 5167) which will help me create a front end that will help users have a great experience when using our app. We learn how to think in the head of our user and how to eliminate headaches when using the app.
 
	I also have great co-op experience that will help me when creating this project. I have worked at Medpace for all of the co-op semesters that I have had at UC. At Medpace I worked on an mobile and web application to assist in at home clinical trials when covid hit. This has dropped me in the position to be the mobile specialist for our app as I am the only one with this type of experience. I have also acquired a great deal of skills in app development. I know how to configure an application with node and to apply different libraries to an app to expand the features and capabilities.
 
	I am very excited to work on this project as it will have direct application for my current co-op position. I plan on working there full time after graduation, so this is extra important for me. The react framework is something that my manager wanted to explore for their app, so I will be able to bring a unique knowledge about react that my other coworkers do not have. I will be using a lot of the skills that I learned about building a new app from my co-op. While keeping this in mind, I will also be using the looser restrictions that we have to experiment and try new things that I might be hesitant to attempt in a professional setting. This is a great opportunity for me to showcase both what I have learned and what I am capable of.
 
	I am expecting to have a fully functioning application for both mobile and web. I am less worried about the web portion as I have learned it can be difficult to translate that to mobile. I will evaluate my contributions on my willingness to show off what I have created. If I feel that the work that I have done is something that I would turn into my manager at my job I will know that I have done well. I will also be looking for our advisor's opinion on the ease of use of our app. I want to make sure that even the technologically inexperienced will be able to use our app.
